Thank you for joining us and welcome to the program.
It's our privilege to spend the next hour with you dear brothers and sisters.
Please join us on the field trip to Ethiopia, where we will meet brothers Defanos Demsas.
Brother Demsas and his wife served faithfully for many years while the preaching work was under ban.
You will enjoy their experiences.
Have you ever participated in a preaching campaign?
Our team was present when one was arranged in Armenia.
A preaching campaign is uplifting and encouraging to everyone involved as this segment will show.
How would you react if one of your loved ones decides to leave the truth?
It truly is heartbreaking to say the least.
But what Bible principles can help us endure such a challenge?
This dramatization will help us.
This is the November program of JW Broadcasting.
We have selected the theme be a champion of truth.
You may have heard of the word champion used in the context of sports.
What is a champion?
The word can have different meanings.
The word is related to the French word Shaw, meaning field.
That word has its origin in the Latin word compass, also meaning field or battlefield.
The Bible speaks of a champion on a battlefield in 1 Samuel chapter 17 and verse 4.
Then a champion came out from the camps of the Philistines, his name was Goliath.
Goliath was a champion for a wrong cause, namely to take the lead in defeating the ancient Israelites in battle.
In our modern time, according to one definition, a champion is an ardent defender or supporter of a cause or another person.
Christians today are ardent defenders and supporters of the truth.
The Watchtower of January 15, 2012, said on page 8,
quote,
other champions of Bible truth rose up in the centuries that followed.
Years before, the Watchtower said,
this magazine will never shrink in fear from championing the truth.
The Watchtower has been championing the cause of kingdom truth.
So are you a champion?
In a sports competition, only one individual gets to be the champion.
But in the case of true Christians, all can be champions of the truth.
All Christians are to defend the truth and become conquerors, winners.
It's necessary to defend the truth because in today's world truth is being attacked and distorted.
We are surrounded by a sea of lies and misrepresentations.
How did such lies get started?
They started in the Garden of Eden when Satan told Eve lies.
Satan, through his deceptive statements, became the father of the lie.
All the problems in the world, all calamities, also your personal calamities,
all wars, all diseases, all crimes, all unhappiness,
sorrow and death started with the original lies in the Garden of Eden.
Satan is the father of the lie, but today there are many children of the lie.
Every one of us is affected.
We are surrounded by a sea of lies.
A lie is a false statement deliberately presented as being true, a falsehood.
A lie is the opposite of the truth.
Lying involves saying something incorrect to a person who is entitled to know the truth about a matter.
But there is also something that is called a half-truth.
The Bible tells Christians to be honest with each other.
Now that you have put away the seat, speak truth, broke the Apostle Paul at Ephesians 4.25.
Lies and half-truth undermine trust.
A German proverb says, who lies once, is not believed even if he says the truth.
So we need to speak openly and honestly with each other,
not with holding bits of information that could change the perception in the listener or mislead him.
As to lies, there are different types.
Some politicians have lied about matters they wanted to keep secret.
Companies sometimes lie in advertisements regarding their products.
What about the news media?
Many tried to report events truthfully, but we should not be gullible and believe everything newspaper's right
or everything we hear on radio or sea on television.
Then there are religious lies.
If Satan is called the father of the lie, then Babylon, the great, the global empire of false religion can be called the mother of the lie.
Individual false religions could be called daughters of the lie.
Some lie by saying that sinners will get tormented in hell forever.
Others lie by saying, one saved, always saved.
Again, others lie by saying that the earth will be burned up on judgment day and all good people will go to heaven.
Some worship idols.
Paul wrote in Romans chapter 1 and 25,
they exchanged the truth of God for the lie and venerated and rendered sacred service to the creation rather than the creator.
Then there are many lies of a personal nature that people express in everyday life.
The businessman may get a phone call but tell his secretary to answer the caller by saying he is not in.
This may be considered a small lie.
There are small lies, big lies and malicious lies.
A child may have broken something but when asked initially out of fear of punishment denies having done it.
This does not make the child a malicious liar.
In contrast, what if an entrepreneur tells his bookkeeper to falsify the entries in the books in order to save on taxes?
This lying to the tax office is certainly a serious lie.
It is a deliberate attempt to mislead somebody that has the right to know.
It also robs the government of what they have established as legal income.
We can see that not all lies are the same.
They are small lies, big lies and malicious lies.
Satan is a malicious liar. He is the champion of the lie.
Since Jehovah hates liars, we should avoid all lies, not just big or malicious lies.
But can we find the truth? Some say, truth is relative.
It is like saying, this is truth for you and this is truth for me.
This claim is not logical when it comes to religious truth.
Either God is a Trinity or He is not.
Either the soul is mortal or it is not.
Either there is a future paradise on earth or there is not.
Either homosexuality is acceptable to God or it is not.
Either participating in wars is permissible or it is not.
Truth is definite, not relative because Jehovah conveyed the truth to his servants.
Psalm 43 verse 3 says, send out your light and your truth.
Jehovah is a revealer of truth.
One of several reasons why Jesus came into the world is to witness to the truth.
At John 18, 37, B, he said, for this I have been born and for this I have come into the world
that I should bear witness to the truth.
Everyone who is on the side of the truth listens to my voice.
So if we listen to Jesus or read in the Bible what he thought, we can learn the truth.
Jesus was the personification of the truth.
He said, I am the way and the truth and the light.
We can find out what the truth is by diligently studying the Bible.
Truth is that which is effect.
For true Christians the entire text of the Hebrew and Christian Greek scriptures constitutes the truth.
Psalm 119 verse 160 says of Jehovah, the essence of your word is truth.
That is why it is good to do daily Bible reading with meditation and weekly family worship.
At Matthew 24, 45 to 47 we read that for the time of the end Jesus would appoint a faithful and discreet slave
or governing body to explain the Bible to his followers and help them to grow in understanding of the truth.
Whereas Jesus' teachings and the written word of God are inspired, the faithful and discreet slave is not inspired.
Although it champions the truth.
Nevertheless the faithful slave provides spiritual food.
Whereas in the first century there was supernatural knowledge available for apostles and Bible writers.
In the time of the end Jehovah does not bestow this miraculous gift anymore as explained at 1 Corinthians 13-8.
Although there is no divine inspiration today, still Jesus leads his people progressively through the services of the faithful slave.
Jesus trusts that the imperfect faithful slave will do its best to convey spiritual food.
Do you also trust the slave?
Whereas the truth of God's word does not change, our understanding of the truth does change because we are not perfect yet.
We understand more about the truth today than Christians in the first century.
Do we keep up with the progressive understanding of truth?
Daniel was told many will rove about and the true knowledge will become abundant.
This is a gradual process we are still roving about.
During the millennium Jehovah will reveal additional truth to mankind.
At Revelation 20-12 it mentions scrolls that will be opened.
The Apostle John reports that the dead are to be judged out of those things written in the scrolls according to their deeds.
Evidently then these scrolls will contain additional information for mankind during the thousand years.
It stands to reason that after the end of the millennium there will be additional truth to learn.
Still, according to Ecclesiastes 3 verse 11,
mankind will never find out the work that the true God has made.
But how do we know we have the truth?
At Pentecost 33 of our common era, true Christians numbered only about 3000.
Today we are millions and on average every weekend more than 5000 are getting baptized.
But this in itself is not proof that we have the truth.
Truth is not measured in numbers.
Why do we know we have the truth?
For one, because we remain in Jesus' teaching, John 831.
Second, we know we have the truth because of the deep bond of love for each other, John 1335.
Third, we know we have the truth because our conduct adheres to the high moral standards of truth, John 1510.
Fourth, we know we have the truth because we remain neutral in the controversies of the world, as Jesus advised at John 1714.
Fifth, we know we have the truth because we are God's name people, Acts 1514 speaks of a people for His name.
Jesus said, the truth will set you free.
It sets us free from fears like the fear of death, fear of the future, and an exaggerated fear of man.
It also sets us free from false teachings, from spiritism, and from astrology and magic.
It frees us from immorality and its consequences.
There are no other people on earth that are as spiritually free as we are.
Do we appreciate that freedom?
Truth leads to freedom. Second Corinthians 317 says, where the spirit of Jehovah is, there is freedom.
The truth penetrates schools, how so?
By means of our children who preach the truth to classmates and to teachers.
Do you go to school? Do you champion the truth at school?
How can you do this?
You do this not only by preaching, but also by your conduct, by your dress and grooming,
and by taking a stand for the truth when others want you to participate in un-Christian practices.
You also champion the truth by remaining honest and not cheating on your exams, and Jehovah will love you for that.
The truth also penetrates prisons.
Reports have come in from many countries telling of the good work brothers are doing in contacting prisoners in various prisons,
helping some to rehabilitate their lives spiritually.
In a number of such institutions, regular meetings are being held, and several prisoners have studied to the point of dedication and baptism.
The truth penetrates even walls of monasteries.
In Mexico in 2009, a nun was baptized who, because of the truth, had left her monastery and order,
although she was the mother superior.
The world is in utter confusion.
What a blessing to know the truth. We rejoice in it.
We have the truth on our lips. We have the truth around our hips.
Ephesians chapter 6 says that the belt of truth is fastened around our wastes.
We are ready to teach it.
We talk the truth and we walk in the truth.
And those who continue to walk in the truth will walk in it forever.
Help your students to love the truth and to live the truth, but if necessary, to be willing to die for the truth and for Jehovah.
The truth is invincible and we will conquer this wicked world.
In some countries, we may have many enemies who may want to silence us,
but the Apostle Paul said at 2 Corinthians chapter 13 verse 8,
for we can do nothing against the truth.
Neither can our enemies suppress the truth.
Do we appreciate that we have the truth? The only truth?
Is this arrogant to say? By no means.
It would be a sin if we would not say so.
Jesus was not arrogant when He said, I am the truth.
To know the truth is not enough.
We need to champion it.
There are still many lovers of truth out there.
Search for them who will help you in the search.
According to John 4, 23, Jesus said that Jehovah is searching for ones that want to worship in truth.
The majority will not listen to the truth because they love the darkness rather than the light.
The truth may expose their sinful conduct and they may not have the humility to want to repent and change.
We still have to preach to them to warn them.
Ezekiel was told, you must warn them from me.
The principle applies to us as well.
Paul speaks of the sword of God's Word.
Use it well to champion the truth.
Train your students to be good defenders of it as well.
The time will come in paradise after the final test.
When it will not be necessary to champion or defend the truth because nobody will attack it anymore.
Right now, whether we are adults, teenagers or children, let us follow and imitate Jesus the greatest champion of truth.
To that end, keep studying the truth, keep spreading the truth, keep loving the truth and Jehovah the God of Truth.
Hold fast to the truth as to a lifeline as this is what it is.
By staying faithful whether you survive Armageddon or are resurrected in paradise, you will be a victorious champion of the truth.
Let us now look at some examples of how our brothers and sisters around the world faithfully champion the truth.
Thank you, Brother Loosh.
When a dear friend or perhaps even a family member leaves the truth, it can be a very challenging situation.
It can truly be a test of our faith when we see something like that take place.
While watching this dramatization, pay attention to how the mother was able to champion the truth by remaining loyal to Jehovah.
My name is Gabriella.
Ben and I have always enjoyed attending the meetings.
But lately, it's been difficult.
Something was missing.
Our son.
It was like watching a movie of someone else's family.
Couldn't believe this was happening to us.
Our son Levi was no longer one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
The elders and friends in the congregation were so supportive and understanding.
Many of them watched Levi grow up.
Give his first talk.
Get baptized.
I was so torn.
I was disappointed in Levi for leaving Jehovah.
But I was more disappointed in myself.
I felt like we've failed him somehow.
I kept wondering how he was doing.
Was he okay?
Then, as hard as the past few weeks had been, it just got harder.
I knew what the Bible said about quit mixing in company with anyone who is not living according to Christian standards.
But I never thought that scripture would one day apply to me.
Later that evening, a brother was talking about the example of Korra's sons.
Jehovah confirmed that he was using Moses to lead his people.
Not Korra.
When the people were told to move away from the rebel's tents, what would Korra's sons do?
Would they put loyalty to family ahead of loyalty to Jehovah?
The Bible tells us that his sons remained loyal to Jehovah and were blessed for it.
That night, after the meeting, I told Ben about the text I received from Levi.
I told him everything.
How I miss Levi so much.
But that I also wanted to be loyal to Jehovah.
Like Korra's sons.
Ben admitted that he too had been struggling with feelings like mine.
But then he said something that I hadn't thought of.
If we were to stand between Levi and the discipline he needs,
we would in effect be blocking an expression of Jehovah's love from reaching him.
In fact, it's our very loyalty to Jehovah that could save his life.
We agreed to continue to put our trust in Jehovah and stay loyal to him.
It's been five years now.
And while Levi still hasn't returned to Jehovah,
I haven't given up hope on him.
Until that day, I'm staying busy as a regular pioneer
and focusing my energies on helping others learn about Jehovah.
I've come to experience firsthand the truth of Psalm 9710.
Jehovah really does guard his loyal ones.
What helped Gabriela overcome this difficult challenge?
For example, when she received a text message from her son,
she applied scriptural counsel to her personal circumstances.
The good example of Korra's sons gave her added motivation
so as not to allow her feelings for her son to dictate her actions.
Instead, she was firm in her loyalty to Jehovah.
Also, her husband Ben had found an article that helped the two of them appreciate
that they should make sure not to stand between Jehovah and their son Levi.
Instead, they wanted Jehovah's expression of love to reach Levi.
Whenever we are faced with the trial,
we need to remember to pray constantly to Jehovah for guidance
and to look for Jehovah's counsel in our literature and during our meetings.
The Apostle Paul faced many challenges in his ministry.
In 2 Corinthians chapter 11, starting in verse 23,
he enumerates over 20 hardships that he experienced in his ministry.
What helped Paul to keep his motivation strong despite everything he faced?
In this morning, worship from Bethel,
Brother John Echran highlights what Paul himself said kept him going.
When you look at the words in the way that the Apostle Paul worded things,
he said, I live by the faith in the Son of God who loved me and handed himself over for me.
And we can really see the very personal nature of the ransom to the Apostle Paul.
And it's important for us to do, as our commenters pointed out nicely,
it is important for us to personalize the ransom.
The Apostle Paul in Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 5 showed the very personal nature.
He understood the personal nature of the Bible and the ransom.
In Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 5,
he uses this expression and who have tasted the fine word of God
and powers of the coming system of things.
It's interesting he used the word taste.
Taste is something very personal.
Somebody can't taste something for you.
You have to put it in your mouth in order to really know what it's going to taste like.
So too with the ransom.
And what practical ways can we taste or personalize the ransom for us?
Let's just consider a couple this morning.
One is personal fears.
Does God really love me?
Am I worthy of love?
Sometimes the what ifs and their cousins that could be,
they come to live and never leave.
You know, bad things or trials or difficulties happen to us.
We begin to reason, well, Jehovah God maybe doesn't love me.
There's a really strong reason for us to somehow believe in cause and effect.
We see the cause of things and effect.
And so after a while, everything that happens to us,
we begin to look at some cause and even begin to think that maybe Jehovah doesn't love us.
You can even if we're a good person and bad things happen to us, we begin to wonder.
Others my age are healthy.
Some leaving or changing assignments,
you hear everything falls into place for them within a few weeks.
I'm still looking for a job.
I'm still looking for work.
In other words, not try to reason that just because things don't work out perfectly
that Jehovah doesn't love us, it's not true.
We can still be doing very, very good things and yet some difficulties can face us.
For example, you're driving down the road of being all the traffic laws.
You pull up to a red light, you stop, turns green, you go through it and you get broadsided
by some knucklehead who went through the red light on the other side.
Well, that's not your fault.
Are you going to say, well, you know what, I'm not going to be traffic laws anymore.
See, it doesn't pay.
Well, no.
It was his fault for running through the traffic lights and sometimes bad or difficult things can happen to us.
It's not our fault or it's not any sign that Jehovah doesn't love us.
So how can reflecting on the ransom help us when we have these kinds of personal fears?
Well, we could start with, why do we have the ransom?
Well, because some very bad things were happening to some good people, us.
Adam and Eve descendant.
I mean, Adam sinned and Eve sinned yet we suffer.
The ransom is Jehovah's solution for those who appreciate it.
It's his way of telling us, I know bad things are happening and I'm working to fix it.
Yes, when we reflect on the reason why Jehovah God gave us the ransom,
it helps us to know that Jehovah knows we suffer from cancer and old age and the sins and mistakes of others
and even our own imperfections.
See, tasting of the ransom in this way means we'll not get the feeling that Jehovah doesn't love us when trials befall us.
To the contrary, the ransom is the greatest expression of Jehovah and Jesus' love for us
and their desire to fix the current mess we live in now.
How about let's consider a second way that we could reflect on the ransom
and that is the death of someone close to us?
Anyone who's had someone very close to them die knows the very helpless feeling that you have,
knowing that there's really nothing you can do.
In that instant, when they die, your hope, your faith, in the resurrection,
based on the ransom, become more real to you than any time in your entire life.
In Acts chapter 17 and verse 31, in a beautiful speech that the Apostle Paul gave,
he highlights that Jesus, death and resurrection and the ransom was really a guarantee that we have.
Here in Acts chapter 17 and verse 31,
he says, because he has set a day on which he purposes to judge the inhabited earth in righteousness
by a man whom he is appointed, and he's provided a guarantee to all men by resurrecting him from the dead.
So, personalizing the ransom, all that it makes possible, helps us to know that the resurrection is just not possible,
but that Jehovah and Jesus want to resurrect our mother, our father, our beloved husband or a wife.
They care about each person that has ever lived or died.
Know them so intimately and so completely that they can resurrect them completely with all their memories and personality completely as we knew them.
I mean, how much more personal could God's love for us become than that?
You know, to bring our loved ones back from the dead
is the ultimate statement of Jehovah's personal interest in each and every human being.
We are not just collateral damage in Satan's war on Jehovah.
The ransom is the way that Jehovah plans to undo all the harm that Satan has caused since the death of Adam and Eve.
In fact, the resurrection is really Jehovah's way of proving all of Satan's lies completely a false.
When you think about it today, Satan can portray all kinds of lies about what happens to people after they die.
They're going to go here, they're going to go there, they're going to go to some afterlife, they're going to go to some paradise, they're going to come back as some animal.
But in the new world, when the vast majority of people being resurrected, I've been resurrected, that lie isn't going to be sold anymore.
Each one can tell everyone what happened to them when they died.
Nothing. No afterlife. Everyone will know that it's non-existence. That lie won't work.
See, Jehovah knew that we would hurt terribly at the death of loved ones.
So he gave us the ransom. As his way of telling us, I know it hurts.
But please know that I have the perfect solution in mind.
Now, we've just considered two ways to reflect and meditate on the ransom, like the Apostle Paul did to really personalize it.
We just talked about personal fears and the resurrection, the death of someone close to us.
Imagine how many more ways we can benefit today from meditating on the ransom and how it affects us personally.
As ministers of Jehovah, we take part in preaching the good news.
That good news includes the wonderful provision of the ransom Brother Ekran highlighted.
Have you ever participated in a preaching campaign? I'm sure you have enjoyed campaigns such as inviting our neighbors to the memorial or the regional convention.
On occasion, other campaigns are approved by the service committee of the governing body when there is a specific need in an area or language group.
We bring you a report on a special campaign in Armenia.
Armenia is an ancient country with rich history situated in the lands of Mount Ararat.
In the Caucasus region, Lake Sivan is considered to be a prized jewel.
Diversity of its flora and fauna contribute to the unique and beautiful countryside.
Yerevan, the capital, is a modern metropolis with picturesque views that remind many of Paris, with its trees, cafes, and beautiful water fountains.
What is this? Yes, you don't know.
Recently, a special three-week preaching campaign took place.
Groups of Armenia speaking Jehovah's Witnesses from six different countries wholeheartedly responded to the invitation.
The main purpose of the campaign was to cover as many of the 512 unassigned territories as possible, with the Kingdom Good News.
Thus, an opportunity for an interchange of encouragement was created for both the local friends and the campaign participants.
They were warmly greeted at the airport by local brothers and sisters.
The witnesses made good use of their tablets and smartphones to show videos from the JW.org website.
Armenia is also currently home to over 11,000 Western Armenia refugees.
A special effort was made to share with these individuals the positive message of hope and peace from the Bible in their native tongue, West Armenia.
Metropolitan witnessing served as an effective way to reach these ones.
It was the first time in my life that I participated in public witnessing, and it was very encouraging.
When individuals would approach us and show interest, I could explain to them the truth in their own language. It was amazing.
It's been very heartwarming. People have really responded well. They were in need of comfort and the good news, especially those that we came for.
The Western Armenians pretty much every door invited us in, and they were very hospitable and receptive.
After we heard an announcement about a special campaign in a Western language that's going to take place in Armenia, we said we cannot miss this.
We have to be there and bring our share in this very joyful preaching campaign.
During the three-week campaign, over 15,000 pieces of Bible-based literature were left with interested ones, and over 200 Bible studies were started.
We were very happy to see how many brothers and sisters were ready to come for the campaign in Armenia, from different countries around the world.
That response showed that Jehovah has blessed our efforts.
Those who came from far and wide greatly appreciated the share they had in this special event.
Everyone was so happy to see us, and when we were giving them a Bible, they were so excited to find answers from their own Bible.
I so blessed to be here. This has been the best vacation that we have had as a family.
The first time I came to Armenia, I was in 1982, and I looked for the witnesses, and I hardly found just a few.
But now that I came for this campaign, we have 11,000 witnesses. I'm really so happy. I really want to come back.
It is our hope that Jehovah God continues to help all sorts of people to be saved and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.
While we enjoy relative freedom in many countries around the world, at times governments impose bans or restrictions on the preaching work.
Brother Stefano's Densus serves as a special pioneer in Atis Ababa Ethiopia, along with his wife Leta Brahan.
Their faith was tested during many years of adversity. What helped them champion the truth? Their story began and what is today Eritrea?
Will it day?
I come from a family of nine children. I joined the Navy in 1956. That was during the time when Eritrea was part of Ethiopia.
My brother, Gebra Hewatt, asked me to come to Asmara. He was studying the Bible with Jehovah's Witnesses.
I was so impressed with what he shared with me that for the rest of my vacation, Bible study became my priority.
In time, I was discharged from the Navy and started working in Atis Ababa. So I was able to continue studying the Bible and get baptized.
Leta was also doing the same.
In 1960, I was attending a nursing college. There, a nurse shared some interesting thoughts with me from the Bible.
Ten other student nurses also showed interest, but the college threatened us with dismissal because there was a ban on Jehovah's Witnesses.
When we were shown from the Bible why true Christians are persecuted, we renewed our determination. Eventually, five of us were baptized.
In time, I met Stefanus and we were married in 1964.
Because of the ban, the brothers were meeting in small groups. Our trust was in Jehovah, and we made the preaching work a matter of prayer, confident that he would help us.
We saw evidence of this with the underground production of the watchtower.
Our brothers would have modest means, but they used what they had to buy a hand-operated duplicating machine which was used in our home.
After returning from our second work, Leta and I would get busy making copies of the watchtower.
We would play music, so our neighbors wouldn't hear the sound of the duplicator.
In 1974, Emperor Haile Selassie was deposed.
This communist government quickly began a campaign called Red Terror against any supposed political opposer.
Now, just having a typewriter or a duplicating machine could put you in prison or even have you killed.
Picking up a paper from the street with something printed on it against the government could put one's life in danger.
It was common for people to disappear. Sadly, my youngest brother, Eob, was a victim. He disappeared on his way home and was never seen again.
With the situation being very dangerous, we were quite concerned raising our daughter Janet.
But as we fully trusted in Jehovah, we felt his loving protection.
In time to time, sections of the city were suddenly blockaded.
This happened one morning as a translator was heading to our home to deliver stencils for printing.
Urgently, he telephoned informing us that a house to house search was underway.
Our house was full of publications, along with the duplicator and typewriters.
Just after the phone call, three soldiers entered our compound to search.
At that moment, I prayed silently that Jehovah would blind them.
Entering the room where the duplicator and stacks of freshly printed literature were, one soldier asked,
what is all this?
Oh, this is a duplicator that we use to print these Bible materials.
Completing his search, he went outside to the commander who asked him,
what did you find?
To our utter amazement, after seeing everything, he answered, nothing.
We won't find anything here.
In the late 1970s and into the early 80s, another wave of vicious persecution occurred.
A number of faithful brothers were imprisoned, tortured and murdered.
I was taken from my workplace because of my neutral stand and put in prison.
When I think about living through those difficult times, I'm reminded of Isaiah 54, 17,
where Jehovah promised us, no weapon formed against you will have any success.
Finally, in 1991, a liberal government came to power.
They gave us legal recognition and freedom of worship.
With these difficult, dangerous years now behind us,
we were assigned to the circuit work in Eritrea and Ethiopia.
By now, Eritrea was becoming an independent country,
and this brought about new challenges for the brothers.
Some young brothers were arrested and imprisoned because of their Christian stand.
Paul wrote at Hebrews 13 verse 3,
keeping mind those in prison, as though you were in prison with them.
After enjoying the circuit work for 15 years,
we faced another change.
We were invited to serve at Bethel as full-time commuters.
What has helped us to endure through the ban years,
and to adjust to the many changes, is our spiritual study program.
We're in full agreement with Jeremiah 17 verse 7.
Blessed is the man who puts his trust in Jehovah.
It also brings us much happiness to know that our daughter Janet
has been serving as a regular pioneer for 20 years now.
Each assignment has had its challenges,
but many rewards and blessings.
I'm not young anymore. I'm 77 years old.
And I'm 74 years old.
We are now serving as special pioneers.
When we think about all the changes that we've been through,
we realize that the words of Isaiah 6, verse 8,
here I am, send me, are not just for young people,
but for all of us.
It is very encouraging to see,
Stefano Saint-Ledipurhan's determination to stay faithful to Jehovah come what may.
We know that Jehovah looks with delight on their many years of service.
Some of our brothers in Canada underwent similar persecution.
How did Jehovah help them?
Pay special attention to the numerous acts of courage displayed by these champions of truth.
Preaching in the province of Quebec was a real challenge.
The Catholic Church was present in every sphere of public life.
In the early 40s, the persecution took on quite a bit of emphasis.
Many witnesses were being arrested.
Any excuse was used, peddling without a license.
This was a favorite excuse.
Jehovah's Witnesses were put in prison whenever they were seen with religious literature.
It had got so bad in Quebec that it was decided to circulate a petition.
And this petition was circulated throughout Canada and it called on the government of Quebec
to put an end to this persecution.
And interestingly, some 600,000 people signed the petition.
The witnesses distributed a very fiery track called the Burning Hade of Quebec.
And in this track, they showed what was really happening.
The actions of the policemen, the illegal arrests, the mob action.
Within four months, there was 800 new court cases.
So here for 400 Jehovah's Witnesses, you had 1,600 court cases.
The seriousness of the court cases increased in that now they were accusing the brothers of sedition.
If convicted, it was more than 10, maybe 12 or 15 years in prison.
We have one brother, Amy Boucher, who was arrested and charged with sedition.
Amy Boucher was a very poor brother, lived in a rural part of Quebec.
And he actually went to court with his ox and buggy.
And on the way to court, he was preaching.
So he was arrested again.
They had the court hearing and he was condemned.
He was found guilty of sedition.
And his case went up to the court of appeal.
And at that time, the court of appeal of Quebec was very hostile.
And he lost on appeal.
So it went up to the Supreme Court of Canada.
And by this time, there were several other brothers and sisters also charged on sedition.
Which meant that if he lost his case, we had several going to prison for very lengthy prison terms.
When brother Boucher's case came before the Supreme Court, he lost by majority of one.
The Catholic judges all ruled against him.
And they found that the track, the burning hate of Quebec was seditious.
Our lawyers looked at the situation, prayed about it, and thought, what can we do?
We can't lose this battle.
And they realized that in Canada, there was a very rarely used provision of asking the Supreme Court for a rehearing.
At the rehearing, one of the Catholic judges was willing to discuss further the issue of sedition.
And to be guilty of sedition, you have to incite to violence.
So our attorney asked them, please, look at the record.
Show the court where Jehovah's Witnesses incited to violence.
And finally, they were able to convince the court they were wrong.
And so they overturned their initial decision.
And brother Boucher's case was victorious.
This dealt with all the accusations of sedition and really brought to an end the vicious opposition.
Because that case was the one the government was hoping would work out for them.
There is one case that's quite noteworthy in Quebec.
And it's a case of the priests calling up the federal police to come and interrupt a meeting of Jehovah's Witnesses.
And expel the speaker from the province of Quebec.
Police obeyed the priests. They went to the meeting.
They took the brother and they escorted him out of the province into Ontario.
And to disrupt a religious meeting was a criminal act.
For the first time, and it's at the level of the Supreme Court,
they found that the two policemen had to pay moral damages to the brothers for intercepting or interrupting the meeting.
This has never happened before.
And when it came up to the Supreme Court, the unanimously ruled against the province of Quebec.
The section on religious freedom is the result of these court cases.
Every lawyer in Canada, whether in Quebec or in English Canada, when he studies law must review these cases.
They are the fundamentals of religious freedom.
And they represent the different areas, police action, government action, criminal action.
And they lay a very nice basis for our freedoms today.
Our purpose is to be able to preach the good news and to direct people's attention toward the Bible.
But our court cases have helped governments, courts, judges and officials to have the right point of view on the issue of religious freedom.
The endurance and hard work of our brothers in Quebec truly resulted in a witness to the nations.
While the hope for a positive outcome can at times provide us with needed motivation, we can't always expect support from the authorities in this system of things.
The same applies in many areas of life, whatever trials we may face.
Perhaps you have lost a loved one and death.
Looking forward to a time just around the corner can help us endure.
That's also the title of this month's music video, just around the corner.
You can hear the songbird singing and you watch the clouds roll by.
Then you're walking in the valley as the sun shines in a clear blue sky.
You're welcoming your loved ones and you can't believe.
Yes, this earthly paradise was just around the corner.
There's a house down in the valley and a house high on the very singing by the river.
As the water flows and turns the milk, the golden fields are waiting.
Let the harvesting begin.
Once the world we're living, it was just around the corner.
It's great to share with friends who care the things that we looked forward to.
Now every tear has disappeared.
The world is young and life is new.
There's the sound of happy voices and the scent of new morn hay.
Now you're calling to your loved ones as you start another perfect day.
Then we thank our poorest tender.
Yes, the blessings we all share were just around the corner.
And every day smile and say how good to see your happy face.
Once it seemed I only dreamed that you'd be in my warm embrace.
Waiting round the corner is a world I long to see.
It's a promise from Jehovah.
It's a guarantee reality and it's hard to get downhearted when I think of what's in store.
It's the day I'm waiting for and it's just around the corner.
What a beautiful song.
Personally, I lost my father when I was two years old.
He was a soldier in World War II and was killed in battle.
I never had an opportunity to get to know him.
Growing up, I am missed having a father because I saw everyone else's head one.
So I look forward to observing the earthly resurrection and seeing my physical father.
And I hope that both he and my mother will want to worship Jehovah in paradise.
Thank you for sharing that for the lotion.
When my father comes back in the resurrection, I look forward to welcoming him with open arms.
He was a keen student of history and the Bible.
And so he will want to know all about what took place during this time of the end.
So my family and I will have a good time filling him in on what took place.
This music video and some of the videos we've seen the past few years at regional conventions
have painted such a clear picture of the hope we have for the future.
And if we work hard as champions of the truth, that hope will become a reality very soon.
Well said.
And speaking of champions of the truth, we would like to conclude this program with greetings from our brothers and sisters in Romania.
A country situated in the southeast of Europe.
Some of you may know Romania for its traditional instrument called the Nai or Panflute.
It's made of wood and has around 20 pipes arranged in a curved array.
The pitch is adjusted with beeswax, which is introduced in the pipes.
The brothers and sisters in the Chatez in North Congregation, in the north of Romania, send us their love.
The Congregation is located near the Ukrainian border, an area known for its brightly colored folk costumes.
The Congregation is made up of families with many generations of witnesses,
so they have been champions of truth for a long time.
The truth reached this area about 80 years ago, and now the Congregation is made up of 126 publishers.
They conduct about 90 Bible studies, of which many attend the meetings.
Because there is a large concentration of witnesses in the area,
the Congregation territories only five kilometers, or a little over three miles from the one end to the other.
Each territory card has only about five houses.
Because of that, the Congregation regularly assists with working territory up to 200 kilometers, or about 124 miles away.
The brothers and sisters of the Chatez in North Congregation,
send all of you champions of the truth.
They are love and greetings, and so do all of us at World Headquarters.
This is JW Broadcasting in Brooklyn, New York.